R is known as a popular programming language gaining popularity with data analysts inside corporations. R is easy to use according to statisticians, engineers, and scientists who have no computer programming skills. This programming language allows statisticians to perform complicated analysis without advanced knowledge of computing systems.
Because R is an open-source software it is free to use and modify. Most web-sites are displayed using an open-source application such as Apache and companies rely on the open-source MySQL database to store their critical information.
Similar to Java and Perl, R provides to users a wide variety of computing tasks by giving them access to various commands. R is specifically useful for statisticians because it contains a number of built-in mechanisms for organizing data, running calculations on the information and creating graphical representations of data sets.
The idea of R came about from the desire to have a technology that was better suited for statistical students who needed to analyze data and produce graphical models of the information. R then first appeared in 1996, when the statistics professors Ross Ihaka and Robert Gentleman of the University of Auckland in New Zealand released the code as a free software package.
It is estimated that close to 250,000 people work with R regularly. The popularity of R in Universities could threaten SAS Institute. While SAS detours R’s corporate appeal, Google and Pfizer use the software for just about anything. Google uses R to help understand trends in ad pricing and identifying patterns in the search data it collects. Pfizer has created customized packages for R to let its scientists manipulate their own data during nonclinical drug studies instead of sending the information to a statistician.
This article relates to chapter 9 which covers statistical analysis a common form of data mining. Forecasting is a common form of statistical analysis which refers to predictions made on the basis of time-series information. Examples of time-series information include web visits per hour, sales per month, and calls per day. Business objects, Cognos, and SAS offer complete data-mining decision-making solutions. And new to that list is R.